[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Have you
ever wondered why you were born
into the family you're part of?
If you're like a high percentage
of our other Gaiam TV viewers,
you may even feel that
you're the black sheep,
with different
thoughts and desires
than the rest of the clan.
Science has debated the subject
of nature versus nurture
for decades, but
it appears there's
something far more profound
in fashioning who we are.
We're going to speak
with the group THEO
through channel and teacher,
Sheila Gillette, about DNA,
soul, and family dynamics today.
And welcome back, Sheila.
>> SHEILA GILLETTE: Hi, Regina.
It's nice to be here.
>> REGINA: And you know,
I just wanted-- wrap up--
just kind of do a little
recap of our last conversation
for people who saw it last week.
And that has to do with really
more-- we talked about some
of the anomalous animal species
and creatures on the planet
and then moved on, toward
the end of the conversation,
to something that was much
broader and more profound,
which has to do with
the planet Earth itself.
Because one of my bugs is
that all of these films,
all of these brand
new TV series,
are programming a younger
generation of people
to feel it's the end game--
that it's over, right?
>> GILLETTE: Yes.
>> REGINA: That we have a
dystopian, apocalyptic future--
no grass, no trees, no
resources, no nothing.
And I just get so angry on a
soul level when I see that,
because that's creating a
sense of despair and actually
irresponsibility, and that's
not what the THEO group said
was going to be
happening at all.
>> GILLETTE: No, no.
I mean, we have a bright future
if we just want to accept it.
I think this is a time
that's just an exquisite time
to be alive because we're
evolving to a higher
conscious state, to the really--
understanding that we are
the masters of our universe,
literally-- that we are
creation, and that thoughts
are things and what we think,
we get.
And so, what THEO does is
helping us to re-frame the way
we think, to
reprogram our brains
because brains are
constantly growing.
And our default
mechanism in our brain,
our neural pathway to default,
is the negative-- is fear.
And that's been true
since we've become humans
because it was fright or flight.
It meant survival.
Now, we need to be in
the place of creation,
at the causal
level of our brain,
recreating new neural pathways
in a positive bent-- shifting
out of the fear base that we've
been in for thousands of years.
Now is a time in this fifth
dimensionary energy, which
is the highest energy we've
been in on the planet--
new vibrational frequencies
that never before
have humans been able
to access and accept
that we have-- we
are the creator.
Thoughts are things.
We have power.
Things are not done to us.
We create those things to
happen to come into our lives
for learning opportunities.
That's all they are--
opportunities of growth.
>> REGINA: And one of the
things we talked about-- I mean,
we talked about the planet.
We talked about the oceans,
the trees, the forest.
And one of the things
that they were mentioning
was, well, just
like a human being.
Everyone watching our
shows can pretty much
accept that humans
have the ability
to self-heal, even
at the 11th hour,
from the most dire of
circumstances and diseases.
We've seen people who go into
miraculous types of remission
of all kinds.
But we somehow have been
sold a bill of goods
that the planet has no
ability to also heal
from the devastation
we've wreaked upon it.
Yeah, we've done
some-- we've trashed
the place, in a lot of cases.
But the planet has
that-- is that same kind
of self-healing,
self-conscious organism
that, if you just
stop hitting her,
she can recover just
the same, and will
recover because our
consciousness, as you say,
is shifting to a higher
plateau of understanding, where
we realize now you can't
just dump stuff in the ocean.
Duh.
Well, even 30 years ago,
we didn't all accept that.
Now, we pretty much
are on board with that.
>> GILLETTE: Most everybody
knows that that's necessary
because of our media.
In an instant, we can see a
cataclysmic event happening--
an Earthquake happening.
We can see a tsunami happening.
It's an amazing time.
Never before have we had that
connectivity to our planet
that we have now.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GILLETTE: But, you know,
if you look at a forest
that's been burnt, that's had
a natural fire which is natural
to it-- let it be a lightning
strike, and the forest burns.
And what happens
the next spring?
New little sprouts are
sprouting-- new little tree
sprouts.
>> REGINA: From what
looks like devastation.
>> GILLETTE: It is devastation.
But the phoenix rising
out of the ashes,
which fertilize the ground,
comes this new life.
Yosemite is a perfect
example of that.
They had that big
fire several years ago
that devastated Yosemite Park.
And now, you go up there, and
here's all this new growth,
and it's gorgeous.
So the Earth does have
that regenerative process
within it-- in its cells, let's
say, just as our bodies do.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And say for clear cutting
the Amazon, the planet's
lungs, that's not wise policy.
But at least there are
enough people, and groups,
and governments onto
it that, slowly, we
can start hoping
that that practice is
going to be reversed.
So as long as we can
keep the lungs alive,
keep forests intact
as much as we
can at this stage of the
game, and let them continue
to regenerate, we do not have an
apocalyptic, dystopian future.
And it really
bothers me when we're
being sold that
because it's just
being sold to us literally,
again, to create that fear.
Why?
We're more controllable
when we're in fear.
>> GILLETTE: Absolutely.
And really, the message
is, now, the consciousness
is shifting on this planet now.
We've chosen to be here,
to be a part of that
and bear witness to it.
We are participants and
facilitators of that change.
It's not being done to
us, unless we allow it.
Nobody can do to us that
which we do not allow.
>> REGINA: That is right.
And the THEO group is very
clear that the disharmony
and the lack of acceptance
of the way business
is being done around
this planet at large,
whether it's environmental,
whether it's political policy,
the way governments
are structured,
the way the economies
of the world
are structured-- that all of
that is in a state of collapse,
and new birth is occurring each
region, each person at a time,
and so-- never to lose
heart because, as they say,
you will have the
new birth of this.
Money will still exist, but
it'll be utilized and managed
as a resource from a much
higher perspective in terms
of consciousness.
>> GILLETTE: Yes.
You know, when I
wrote my first book,
"The Fifth Dimension," and
this was 20 years ago--
well, no, 24 years
ago that it came out.
THEO was talking about
these very things.
They've been talking
about it for four decades,
that this energy would
be here, and these
are the changes that
would be happening.
And what was
interesting to me is
that they said that because
of the desire of the people,
the changes would
come, and it would
begin in the Baltic states.
Well, that book was
published in December of '88.
In 1989, the Berlin
Wall came down,
and the political structures
that were dissolving
started to change then.
This has been-- well, they
said it started 100 years ago,
the fifth dimensionary
energy embracing this planet,
and it would culminated in 2012.
And now, we're fully in it,
and that we're bearing witness
to the things that they spoke
about then-- that there would
be the need of a global
economic structure.
Well, we've had the collapse,
a global collapse of economy.
And there is this-- the
global economy meetings
that are happening-- the
power eight or the super eight
or whatever it is
that they meet.
And that-- there are changes
necessary because everything
that happens in
the world happens
to each and every one of us.
And now, we know
with technology.
We're being able to touch each
other in such a wonderful way
and see what's happening
around the world.
As these political
structures are
starting to dissolve in
other parts of the world,
here in the United
States, we're seeing
the upheaval of our
political structure
and the necessary changes that
need to happen for our states
and our country to be viable as
a society in this global world.
And we are a global community,
a common unity of humankind.
We're the human
species on this planet.
We have to help each other.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And I'm seeing a really
kind of-- of course,
I know I travel in
somewhat rarefied circles
because I tend to hang out with
people of similar consciousness
to the interviewees
and our Gaiam viewers
and so forth, and we're looking
at things from that plane
already.
But from there, I see a
lot of encouraging markers
in terms of the
younger generations,
too, in terms of
this lack of fear.
It's like, so what
if I can't get
a job that's going to
offer a retirement?
What's retirement?
I mean, I want to make-- well,
there's-- my son and I were
talking about this cool, young,
Dutch fellow who has become
a knitting guru.
He just likes to knit, and
he's a mathematical genius.
And he's created these
incredible patterns
that women all over the
globe are buying and making
these incredible scarves and
shawls out of these geometrics
that this very flamboyant young
man is creating as his passion.
His mathematics are being
applied to knitting.
And I just love it.
When I hear stories like
this, it's like, you go.
>> GILLETTE: Well, you know,
everything's the sacred
geometry.
Our DNA is a sacred geometry.
The geometric forms
of our planet,
of our universe--
so he's tapping
into that in his
creations and letting
us wear that on our
bodies in a vibration
that we're attracted to.
>> REGINA: Well, now, and who
would have said when he was
born-- if you'd said to
his mother, or-- say,
if a soothsayer had
come around and said,
"I see your son is going
to be a knitting guru."
You wouldn't believe this.
It's something--
[LAUGHTER]
>> GILLETTE: You mean, he's
not going to be an engineer?
>> REGINA: Or a
doctor or a lawyer?
But again, this lack
of fear in saying,
hey, I want to do
what I want to do.
I want to bring my
particular style of skill,
or talent, or genius
to the planet--
is showing us a lack of
fear about the larger
structures that we, and, say,
our parents' generation were
facing.
That's dropping away.
That's very encouraging to me.
>> GILLETTE: Well, those
old forms don't work.
They were too constricted.
This is a time of advancement
and expansion that's happening.
And what we're watching
is the old paradigms,
the old thought
processes are dissolving.
They don't work anymore.
>> REGINA: Almost none of it.
>> GILLETTE: No.
And so, of course, we would
need those structures,
even like the banking
structure, for instance.
Those things need to dissolve.
They were fine for a
certain period of time.
They don't work in the new
energy of this new world
with the connectivity
we have with technology,
with each other, and the
education that we're all
getting.
Those old, stayed
ways of being--
>> REGINA: Well, yeah,
and they became corrupt.
>> GILLETTE: They're stuck.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And it's not that
banking in and of itself
was a bad idea to
begin with, when
it was a community
bank that was there
to help a farmer keep his land
or build a new fence or a home
or something.
It served its purpose.
But that's not what it became.
It became something
entirely different,
with different
financial instruments
that are so beyond corrupt.
They're so creative.
I can't even get
my mind around it.
And that's what has to dissolve.
Some people found creative
ways to play with it
and manipulate the
system, so it didn't
work for anyone
but a few anymore.
And that's the part
that's dissolving.
>> GILLETTE: Yes, but there
are still those with brilliance
that have the new vision--
>> REGINA: Yes, there are.
>> GILLETTE: --that are coming
forth and creating this new way
of interchange and
exchange energetically
because we'll always have to
have something that's a form
of energy exchange
for livelihood.
>> REGINA: Sure, and it's the
consciousness behind it that
has to change.
And that is, as THEO Group
said-- and I'm aware of just
from some of my own
connection-- that is happening,
and that is changing.
And I feel very hopeful.
I mean, I don't feel
as though-- I interview
a wide array of people
with various positions
on everything.
But in the end, after
having read, I don't know,
hundreds, thousands of books
and interviewing several hundred
people, I still come away
an optimist from it all.
>> GILLETTE: Well,
I definitely am.
I think with the
experiences I've had,
and the magical experiences
I've had-- in the sense really
realizing that we have the
ability to move matter.
We have the ability to create
in our lives with our thoughts
the manifestations that we want
with the decision being made.
I am.
I have.
I can do this.
Not I wish I could, or I'll try.
That has no energy.
But once a decision is
made, the universal energy
has something to lock
onto that then begins
to create that possibility as
we stay current with our energy
and our vision of it.
It's an amazing
time, and we have
to come out of the
old ways of thinking,
the old paradigms
that we've been in,
the old beliefs that are just
as stuck as what we're talking
about as we witness in our
world, because as we are,
so is our world.
>> REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
And the THEO Group is--
that's a primary thing.
>> GILLETTE: Yes, it is.
>> REGINA: So, on that note,
this time, this conversation,
I want to look at us more
from the perspective of what
our journey is.
And we're talking about
pre-human history,
coming into bodies.
How did that happen?
How did some of us land in
certain places and races?
How do we end up jumping
from one to another?
What happens when gene
pools mix with souls?
How attached is the soul to DNA?
I'm going to talk to
THEO about these things.
I'm just giving you a heads up.
We're going to talk about--
>> GILLETTE: That's
exciting conversation.
>> REGINA: It is.
And what happens to us
between lives and right
when we're leaving our
body, and then coming
into our body as little babies?
So that's going to
be the nature of it.
So I would like to say we'll
see you a little bit later.
And if you don't mind
going to THEO now,
we'll begin that conversation.
>> GILLETTE: OK.
>> REGINA: See you in a bit.
>> GILLETTE: Talk to you later.
>> THEO: It is the beginning.
Is it not?
>> REGINA: It is.
>> THEO: We are appreciative
of the opportunity to be
of service unto you.
You may ask.
>> REGINA: Thank you, THEO.
This conversation
I'd like to have
is about the particular
journey of the human being,
the human soul, that goes from
incarnation to incarnation.
But I would like to begin
the story with the souls that
occupy the bodies
here on Earth--
which is a wild
collective of beings--
the beginning of that
journey, and how we first
started taking the bodies that
we recognize as human now,
and how we made these
decisions to end
up in different places on the
planet, in different races,
and so forth.
And we'll just start
at that beginning point
and move from there.
>> THEO: Mm.
No, the soul is
an eternal energy.
And the Earth is but one
choice of experience,
and the learning in that
experience is emotions.
And a soul choosing to
inhabit a physical structure
on this Earthly plane--
it is not demanded of it.
It is a choice.
And so, as a soul observes
what it wishes to learn from,
it chooses a particular
family environment,
a particular place,
and a particular time
to come into a
physical structure.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
the very beginning, then,
of souls taking physical bodies
and what that whole period
of-- long, long period
of history was like,
when the first
incarnations started.
Because, as you've
said before, this
is a journey of the emotions.
Being on planet Earth is to
learn mastery over emotions.
>> THEO: Yes, and also to learn
emotions, and to master them.
>> REGINA: OK, let's talk about
that part from the beginning.
The souls that originally
came here and were
part of this experiment-- what
was the emotional landscape
like, and what is it
like in many other places
on many other star
systems and planets?
>> THEO: When embodying a
physical form upon the Earth
in the beginning, depending
upon the particular culture,
for there have been beings
upon this planet for thousands
of years.
But you ask in the first.
There was that
which was survival.
Then inhabiting a
physical structure
of third-dimensional
quality, it was a vibration
that was very dense
in and of itself.
So the first souls had the
experience of survival,
of interacting upon this
Earth with other creatures,
you might say--
inhabitants-- that were not
of human form, that threatened.
There was the environment
within itself.
So the form had to
metamorphose as well,
in the sense of its structure,
and the sense of how it dealt
with the environment, and
the interactions with others
and how to survive
on the planet itself.
So there was a denser energy,
if you would, than there is now.
>> REGINA: And these souls--
let's talk about the source
or origin of the-- say, the
vast reaches from which various
souls may have come for this
experience of learning to know
what it feels like to be
in survival mode, or--
>> THEO: Yes.
Learning how to be in
a physical structure,
first and foremost,
energetically speaking.
Know there aren't
just but one choice.
There are billions
of choices for a soul
to experience and learn
from, dimensionally speaking
and universally speaking.
The Earth is a place of
learning of emotions,
of interaction, interpersonal
relationships, because you are
herd animals, so there
were those environments
of compromise and
survival within a group,
and how to work together,
how to feed, how to eat,
how to shelter--
all of the things
to learn from in this
particular beginning.
>> REGINA: The average person
that would be listening to this
would say, are you kidding?
Why would we have chosen
such a thing, such a density?
What was the intrigue with
taking on physicality?
>> THEO: The beauty
of this planet.
>> REGINA: Yes.
That's a good
answer, absolutely.
And so, they wanted to have
a physical understanding
of this gorgeous,
diverse reality.
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: And so, is it unique?
>> THEO: The frontiersman,
you might say,
and women coming forth
in exploratory days,
finding the interaction
satisfactory and exciting--
yes, even with its
difficulties, or its challenges.
>> REGINA: Are there many other
planets similar to the Earth
in this kind of landscape,
beauty, diversity?
>> THEO: There are
others, yes, as we stated.
There are billions of planets
that could sustain life.
>> REGINA: But I mean, is
this anomalous in any way,
or is this a reflection of
many other places like this
throughout the universes?
>> THEO: It is a
reflection of others,
but this has its
particular beauty.
>> REGINA: And what is
that particular beauty?
How would you, coming
from non-physical realms,
characterize the
unique beauty of Earth?
>> THEO: The lighting
of your planet,
the flora/fauna of the planet,
the water itself and how it
forms different valleys, the
topography and its beauty
within that, yes?
>> REGINA: I'm with you.
I'm a big fan of Earth.
It's beyond words, the beauty
and the creativity that
expresses itself on this planet.
My family and I were
looking at a bouquet
of a flower called
peonies the other day.
And every day, we said, how
can this thing, this flower,
explode into something more
beautiful than the day before?
And people wonder
whether there's
intelligence within
the universe.
>> THEO: There is.
Is there not?
It is shown in your nature.
Of course.
>> REGINA: Just the beauty of
the planet itself, certainly,
would exemplify the fact that
there is intelligence guiding
creation.
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: And how do you
describe that intelligent that
would be guiding this
creation of Earth?
How are planets--
what is the mechanism
for the creation of planets,
especially planets with-- well,
this planet in particular--
this kind of diversity,
this kind of beauty?
>> THEO: There is within
that-- there's an intelligence,
as you speak about, that
is constantly creating.
And there is a particular
form of structure.
>> REGINA: Are you talking
mathematics, geometry,
and basic building
blocks of the universe?
>> THEO: Yes, that then align in
a particular way to bring forth
structure, of which you
are all a part, yes.
>> REGINA: So would you say that
the Earth is more-- as you say,
our reality is the
compilation of our thoughts.
It's our creation.
Is the Earth its own
creation and not necessarily
at the hand of an
external creative force?
>> THEO: In that sense, it
was created in an explosion
of a larger source.
However, it had to sustain
creativity in and of itself,
for each cell has a great--
the cold creation within it,
you see, just as your body does.
The Earth does as well.
It is living.
It's a living
organism, if you would.
>> REGINA: With it
sounds-- it looks like,
it appears to be endless
creative possibility.
>> THEO: Yes, but so are you.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> THEO: Each thing upon it
has its own endless source
of creativity.
>> REGINA: And so,
going back to the souls.
These souls that
I assume have come
from far reaches, that
wanted to involve themselves
in this experience here?
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: Then
we're in physicality,
and there were many options as
time went on around the planet,
each area giving a
different experience,
even so far as to say
maybe different emotional
experiences.
When you look at the different
places and races on the planet,
were they maybe a
little more like-minded
souls that wanted to have
a particular type of, say,
emotional/mental experience
together that would incarnate
into specific regions, where
others before them had gone,
maybe some from wherever
they'd come from?
>> THEO: There are groups that
incarnate together to support
each other's growth,
yes, that is so.
>> REGINA: And did this
happen in larger systems
in the peopling of the planet?
>> THEO: It did.
But then, as it grew, then
there was the exchange
of just the human
species upon this planet,
engaging in particular
learning experiences
throughout your world,
and these groups,
as it were, incarnating
in different areas,
in different times,
for the experiences
that they preferred to have,
whatever that might have been,
culturally.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Yes.
And so then, when
we start looking
at the patterns
of reincarnation,
what is the relationship between
the soul and then the DNA?
>> THEO: The DNA of the soul
has a particular structure
in and of itself that therein
would choose a particular
structure and a physicality to
match whatever the learning it
desired to have.
However, there are
those, as we've
stated, of groups
incarnating together
to support each other's growth,
however that expresses itself.
So the choosing of the
environment, the structure
of the DNA, as it were,
would be expressed
with that in the
sense of physicality,
and the soul choosing a
particular environment
for its highest learning
or its teaching of others.
>> REGINA: So we talked about--
when I introduced Sheila
and you in this segment--
about the phenomena of people--
we call them black
sheeps-- black sheep.
A lot of people
watching this show
are probably considered black
sheep because their thoughts
and ideas are different than
what they were raised with
and perhaps the rest
of their family.
What happens when you have
the experience of feeling
absolutely no
familiarity or connection
to your family or
your tribe at all?
>> THEO: There are those who
come as leaders or teachers
in that sense of
that environment,
and the structure therein
chosen offer them an opportunity
to strengthen and grow
from, and to have compassion
for the human condition.
And many whom you
were speak to, who
have that feeling
of not belonging,
not on the same
frequency of-- they
do have some connectivity for
their own learning within that
to acknowledge the
aspect of themselves that
have come as the way
shower, as the opportunity
to share with others.
>> REGINA: So oftentimes,
this would be a first-time
experience within that soul
group, or tribe, so to speak.
>> THEO: It could be, yes.
>> REGINA: And so that would
be the sense of aloneness,
coming with different
thoughts, different ideas.
Or being-- and many people,
as a lot of our viewers
and a lot of the
people I interview,
have spent their entire life
asking different questions
than what society at
large has to offer.
>> THEO: Yes, and showing a
new way of thought as well--
not always a
comfortable place to be.
>> REGINA: No.
I don't think anyone
likes being referred
to as a black sheep,
although now, I
think it's becoming more
of a badge of honor.
It just means not
buying in so much
to an old paradigm or
an old way of thinking.
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And so, when you look
at the great masters
that we know about
in our religions,
even perhaps in our
mythology and such,
whether it's through
Egyptology, or whether it's
great religious leaders--
do these beings,
upon occasion, incarnate
into also physical reality?
And when there's, say, a
great groundswell of change
that's about to occur?
>> THEO: Yes, they do, as
leaders and way showers.
Yes.
Those who have been
prophets, you might say,
and speaking of
what was to come,
in the leading of the masses,
the changing of the paradigms
of thought, the evolution
of consciousness--
there have been those over time.
>> REGINA: Who would you
say would be among some
of the greatest way-showers
of our most recent,
modern history?
>> THEO: Of your modern history?
>> REGINA: Modern history, now.
>> THEO: There have been many.
There have been Yogananda.
There has been Gandhi.
There have been other
leaders in your world
to show the way of new thought.
There have been leaders
of the past that
have been spoken
of fondly, saying
they were the only
one-- the master Jesus,
Buddha-- having a great message
for the planet of change,
the Dalai Lama
being of this time.
But there have always been
those speakers of truth,
some misconstrued by others
in the sense of control.
But there is that creation
of expansion of awareness
that is a continuum.
It has not stopped.
>> REGINA: I would like to
ask you about another family
of modern history
because in America,
among many of the
people I interview,
it's often thought that with the
killing off of this particular
person, that's when our paradigm
shifted toward something
a little darker.
And that was the Kennedy clan,
starting with John F. Kennedy,
and then going on from
there-- his brother that
was then assassinated.
His son went down
in a plane crash.
And they've had a
great deal of tragedy.
But the feeling at the time
when John F. Kennedy was alive
and in the office of
Presidency of the United States
was a feeling of hope.
I think his favorite
musical was Camelot,
and they were often referred
to as this beautiful couple
from Camelot, which is a
place of hope and goodness.
What happened there?
>> THEO: There was a great
time of change of consciousness
in that period of time,
a heightened awareness
of consciousness that had
already begun in the first
of your century.
Later in the century,
mid-century, it
actualized in those
things that were changing
to now the fifth dimensionary
energy, aligning with it,
which was awareness,
consciousness, yes?
And there were those
that spoke out,
that heard the message of
change, that were not satisfied
with the status quo and
could not be manipulated.
And that is continuum until now.
That movement is
continuing and will
continue to expand as beings'
consciousness expands--
and the awareness
of the individual
that they are creator, yes?
>> REGINA: And so, he happened
to be one of those beings that
was in a very high profile
position that refused to accept
the status quo and that was
trying to do significant--
offer significant
change to the planet.
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: So he had to be
taken away by those who were not
ready to allow that
change to occur.
>> THEO: Correct.
>> REGINA: What happened?
If you look at it energetically
from your perspective-- I mean,
I know, politically, we can
look at trickle down events.
But energetically,
what do you see
happened at that time,
when he was removed?
>> THEO: It was not
unlike a crucifixion, yes?
Making that strong of an
impact upon your world--
that that possibility could
occur and occur again.
There were more than one.
>> REGINA: Oh, yes.
And then we had Martin Luther
King after his brother--
>> THEO: And the leaders
of the voice of compassion,
and collective thought, and
collaboration were moving
in a direction of
cohesiveness of humanity, yes?
Not control.
>> REGINA: Yes.
So I just wanted to
toss that one out there
because it's a pivotal
point in a lot of our minds
for our own history-- and as
a tribe, what that tribe has
come in to do together.
And I know, I'm just
using them as an example
because it was kind of a
season of assassinations
in the '60s, so to speak.
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: Now, let's going--
and going back to the human
experience, I would like to
find out from you a little more
about what happens.
Now, we came in.
We've experienced Earth.
We've gone through
many incarnations.
We've matured to the point
where there's travel.
We can move around the planet.
We can jump gene pools.
We can do whatever
we like by way
of experiencing this planet.
But let's talk
about what happens
as we're choosing a body, a
physical structure, a vehicle,
whatever you want to call that.
Before the incarnation
of the human,
how that process lines up,
how the soul is interfacing
with the development
of the embryo,
and then what they're going
to be in, occupying later
as a body--
>> THEO: There's a knowledge of
the soul of where they're going
to come in-- timing.
Some enter immediately, some
during the fetal process
of growth, some
at birth-- but are
aware of the environment in
which the chosen incarnation is
to be expressed and
to be experienced.
And so the soul knows.
There's souls that also know
if that fetus or the body
will go to fruition
and will not enter.
However, if it has
chosen that environment,
it may enter at a later time,
in another physical structure.
So there is never a
missed opportunity.
>> REGINA: What is happening
just prior to the birth process
with the soul, the integration,
and those souls that come
in at birth?
Give us an understanding
from a soul's point of view,
what that's like coming into
and joining with the vehicle
as the birth is taking place.
>> THEO: It's a
joyous experience.
And know that the soul
can go in and out all
during that period
of time, just as it
does when there is a
death or a relinquishment
of the physical body.
There is an in
and out experience
where the soul is going
into other dimensions
and back into body--
as the process of what
you call death--
what we call is birth
to birth, one
dimension to another.
For you are coming into
a physical structure
in the birth of a
baby or a fetus.
There's a birth of an infant.
It is a new dimension,
isn't it, that
is encapsulated by
a physical form?
When one leaves
that physical form,
it is a birth once again into
another dimensional experience.
It is just releasing
that physical form
that's encapsulated it.
You can liken it to a
butterfly or a caterpillar
in a chrysalis, yes?
When the caterpillar enters
that chrysalis-- creates
the chrysalis about it--
then it becomes gelatinous.
There is no form.
And it is there for a
gestational period of time,
and then form begins,
just as in the world.
And in that, the form
becomes the butterfly,
and it breaks out
of the chrysalis,
and all its beauty, uniqueness,
and color is shown, yes?
So it's very similar in the
birthing process, is it not?
>> REGINA: It is.
And I want to know
also about the notion--
once you take that little
physical body, at what
point does the memory
begin diminishing,
or has it diminished by the time
you've joined with the body--
the memory of the past?
>> THEO: It's retained
for a period of time.
>> REGINA: And how long is that?
>> THEO: That is why you've had
many accounts of young beings
speaking about other
experiences that they've had.
>> REGINA: Then so,
generally speaking--
>> THEO: It's not general.
>> REGINA: So there
could be with one--
it's almost an immediate
loss of memory--
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: -- or
relinquishment of memory--
>> THEO: Release.
>> REGINA: And then with
another one maybe not--
>> THEO: Some, it
stays for years.
>> REGINA: For years?
And then for some, of
course, it doesn't go away.
>> THEO: Correct.
>> REGINA: And is it generally--
when a soul has chosen
to forget at an earlier
stage in this development,
what is the most often-- what is
the general reason for letting
the memory go very early on?
>> THEO: It is individualistic
why each soul--
the release of that.
Some are just coming into
an Earthly experience
for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 10th
time-- very young soul.
So there is the
need to release that
which was known before to
fully experience what is now.
But in a soul who has had many
incarnations, those veils,
or that forgetting,
becomes less and less.
And there's a blending
and a recognition
of the multi-dimensionality
of itself.
>> REGINA: And what happens--
now, let's move beyond birth,
then-- into the other birth,
at the other end of life
and to the other-- back
into the other dimensions?
And as you say, there's this
transiting back and forth
between dimensions
in and out body?
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: And this is often
when we'll hear someone
that's going through this phase
talking to loved ones, perhaps.
Is it more memory of
being in the past, or more
going into other
dimensions where there
is a remnant of one
of those loved ones,
or the actual astral aspect
or something of the loved
one waiting for them there?
>> THEO: There's the actual
aspect of the soul there
waiting there to
assist and to welcome,
just in your human experiences,
there is often other humans
there to welcome a new infant
into this new dimension,
this new body.
There is that in the
birth of other dimensions
those of loved ones that are
highly connected soul to soul
that are there in present.
So that often, this release
of the veils in those moments
and times, for there
is all time existence.
And so they are conversing
with their loved ones
in interactive ways before
relinquishing the body
to have a comfortable birth.
>> REGINA: And after the
relinquishing of the body
and going through that process
with the assistance of other
loved ones-- and I know, again,
this depends from soul to soul.
But can you give
us a flavor of what
it's like between our
incarnations-- what our soul is
doing, whether we're
going through rest phases,
after the evaluation phases, and
so forth, recognition phases?
We often hear about
people who are
going into learning
environments or experiences
between incarnations.
>> THEO: There's all of that.
There is rest.
There is an
exhilaration, a freedom
of a release of a
physical structure
that no longer serves.
So there is this immediate
recognition of change.
And then there is a
bit of stabilization
for some-- not all.
Some are already aware
of what has occurred,
and they are prepared.
There's a stabilization phase
for some of what has occurred.
There is a reevaluation
of what has been learned.
And then, there is this
time of recognizing
what one wishes to
do next, whether it
is to travel in
other dimensions,
whether it is to incarnate
again into a physical structure.
It is all by choice, you see.
>> REGINA: And let's talk about
what some of those choices are
because as you've said before,
there are millions of choices.
We don't have to stay as a soul
in a pattern of incarnating
and reincarnating
into human form.
>> THEO: That is a choice.
It is not demanded of you.
So there are billions of choices
for the soul in many dimensions
to experience many
different things.
The mind cannot comprehend
all that there is,
for you have no pictures
for what it may look like
because the human brain
thinks in pictures and past
experiences.
So there is not that
relativity to what
we would express to you.
Just understand that there
are billions of choices.
The Earth only being one.
Then, the question
is, why would one
incarnate into the
Earth many times over?
>> REGINA: That's
my next question.
>> THEO: For the beauty and
uniqueness of this Earth,
the experience of emotions, the
connectivity to others is still
present.
It can vary with each soul.
>> REGINA: It's also been
said that the Earth offers
an opportunity because
of the density,
and because of the
notion of free will,
and the diversity
of opportunity here,
for rather rapid learning,
compared to some other places.
And can you talk
about that a bit?
>> THEO: That diversity--
there is rapid learning.
There's continual feedback
to you in your experiences
and the choices that are made.
It is how you view
them that changes.
As you come more aligned in
your soul and the recognition
of the master that
you are, the intensity
of reactivity to life situations
and circumstances changes.
>> REGINA: It seems like
it would be-- definitely,
it would be heaven on Earth,
once one learns to kind
of graduate on an
emotional level,
into not so highly charged,
reactive, judgmental,
and so forth a reality.
To be able to live within
that on this beautiful planet
seems like it would
be quite a privilege.
>> THEO: Yes, and
it can be done.
Each and every one of
you has that possibility
of relinquishing all
beliefs, creating
new-- of the knowing of the
beauty, unique, and divine
essence that you are.
>> REGINA: Can you give us
a feeling or a little sense
of-- we talked about it
in our last conversation.
There was a time during the
original third-dimensional
densities where
the environment was
such it could support very large
species of people, of animals,
and so forth.
Then we started becoming
more diminutive in size.
And now we're beginning, as the
new frequencies have come in,
to grow back, to begin expanding
a little bit in our size,
and our lifespans, and so forth.
If we looked at a trajectory,
say 1,000 or 20,000 years out,
where is Earth and
this species headed,
in terms of our
physical reality?
>> THEO: In the natural
evolution that is occurring
now, as beings are recognizing
the power that they have
and the ability to pay attention
to the physical structure
and honor that, there would be
a greater longevity in the years
of the lifespan.
But also, in the acceptance
of the physical structure,
there will be that balance.
And there will be larger
size beings once again.
>> REGINA: And by then, we would
have the consciousness to know
that we are a product of our
own thought forms and so forth,
so we would have the ability
to participate much more
in our own self-healing,
if something were to go out
of balance.
So that alone should create
for greater longevity.
>> THEO: Yes, and that
has already begun.
>> REGINA: And what kind of
nutrients are our bodies truly
going to benefit more from in
these new energies than what we
have in the past?
>> THEO: You have been more
refined and more aware of what
the body speaks to
you that it needs.
And as each being
listens, you will
know what nutrients each
physical structure needs,
for you have very similar
structures, but very
fine-tuned structures that are
to particular dietary needs
to what the body will absorb.
So some will be
more plant-based.
Others will be more
animal-based proteins.
So it is individualistic.
That is why each being
must pay attention.
Listen to what the body speaks
to, for the body tells you
where it's imbalanced.
You just need to listen.
>> REGINA: So there'll
be no one-size-fits-all.
>> THEO: Correct.
There are similarities, yes.
But each being so
refined and more defined
in the soul's structure
and the uniqueness
of that-- your personal
awareness is of necessity.
>> REGINA: And speaking
of personal awareness,
once we evolve to
the point, perhaps--
will we evolve to the point
where perhaps we do not need
to shut down our memory upon
incarnation and remain aware?
>> THEO: Yes.
It's already begun.
>> REGINA: Yes.
So with that, is there going
to come a time when we will not
necessarily need guidance
or guides to the degree
that we've needed it
up until this point.
>> THEO: You will
always retain guidance.
>> REGINA: OK.
And will our guides-- is it
normal that our guides continue
to-- as we incarnate
the Earth, we
have a guide or two that will
come with us from incarnation
to incarnation throughout
our personal history, then?
>> THEO: Yes, soul connected.
>> REGINA: And once
we have more memory,
once we can master the
creation of our own reality,
what is the guide's primary role
at this point in our lives--
as we have mastered more than
the-- say, looking 5,000,
10,000, 20,000 years
into the future of Earth?
>> THEO: It's a
blended consciousness.
>> REGINA: Can you
explain a little more?
>> THEO: So there are no
veils that separate you,
so there is a continual
way of education,
continual way of awareness.
So when in need of
a guide or a mentor,
that consciousness is
always there in the asking,
just as it is now.
But there would not be the
thought it could not be.
There would be an open
line of communication.
It is a continuum.
>> REGINA: Are there are some of
us that, between incarnations,
make the choice that we wish
to operate among this aspect,
as guides to others that we
are close to and care for?
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: So it's not uncommon
that someone's grandmother may
die, for example, and that
person's going to-- after they
adjust and rest a bit-- stay
on in that capacity within
the family?
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: And then, there
are those from other places,
other dimensions, other planets,
that also have this role?
>> THEO: Yes.
So it is very vast, you see.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Yes, I do see.
So the soul now--
this process of coming
into conscious
partnership with what
we call the conscious
mind-- can you
give us some final thoughts
on how we can really
help ourselves facilitate this
much deeper internal dialogue
between our soul and
our conscious awareness?
>> THEO: Become aware of it.
Know that it is so.
You are not a victim.
You've chosen to be here--
to identify the fragmented
aspects of yourself that
is separated from you--
to come into that wholeness,
changing beliefs that
no longer serve you-- those
limiting beliefs that have been
adopted by situations
and circumstances that
have occurred.
And they influence
your response to life.
As you take
responsibility-- the ability
to respond on the inner levels,
when one becomes agitated,
fearful, uncomfortable-- to
identify who is uncomfortable
inside and to sooth and
support from your higher self,
your future self, your adult
self-- giving support and love,
and reparenting,
rewriting those beliefs.
>> REGINA: And I assume
meditation is a fabulous
facilitative process.
>> THEO: Meditation
on a habitual,
regular process allows you to
receive and to listen, yes.
>> REGINA: Any final thoughts on
this, the journey of the soul,
our communication between us and
our own soul, and each other,
if you would?
>> THEO: If you could see
yourselves as we see you,
there would be no discontent.
You would be in alignment
to that brilliance
of the divine
essence that you are,
and you would express
it externally.
>> REGINA: Love.
Compassion.
>> THEO: Yes.
We are complete in our asking?
>> REGINA: Yes.
I am complete.
Thank you so much, THEO.
>> THEO: God's love unto you.
Good day.
>> REGINA: Good day.
Welcome back.
>> GILLETTE: Hi.
>> REGINA: Sometimes, there are
little fragments of things that
you remember.
Sometimes, you
don't remember much.
Sometimes, you remember
a little bit more.
You hear the words
passing through you.
Is there anything that
you were seeing today?
Sometimes, there
are things that are
being shown that are not
necessarily verbalized.
Any final thoughts
that you would
like to impart to the
viewers at this point?
>> GILLETTE: Well, I just think
it's an exciting time if we all
understand that message of
how powerful we really are
and start living it.
Sometimes, they'll say,
oh, well, that's for them.
It can't be for me.
It is for you.
It's for all of us.
And don't we all want to
live this most empowered life
that we can live and
live the life we dream?
I mean, it's not just
for other people.
It is for each and
every one of us
if we choose, make the
decision, to do it,
because then the energy
aligns with that.
I think it's just
an exciting time
to be alive and be a part of
this shift of consciousness
that's occurring right now.
>> REGINA: Thank
you so much, Sheila.
I just love our conversations.
>> GILLETTE: You're welcome.
Thank you.
>> REGINA: I hope you've found
this conversation with THEO
interesting and even helpful in
understanding perhaps your own
family and soul dynamic.
If there any questions we
did not address, please
feel free to post
them on this interview
page for the next time
we meet with Sheila.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]